In this lecture, we're going to create the test class.
The test class is going to use the objects class that we created.
Last lecture.
So we are going to create a test class that is to test the functionality of logging into the test or
log in page.
We will create a new package means test cases.
We will then create a new Java class named store.
Log in test within the test cases, package the store, log in.
Test class would then use the objects from the page objects test or log in page class to help construct
the log in test.
So the test class, which is going to be called stor log in test will use the objects from the objects
class to retrieve the locators using the public methods.
In the demonstration.
Notice how I gain access and use the objects methods.
I do this by creating an object of the test or log in page class within the store.
Log in test class.
I then use this object to call methods like email or get passwords to retrieve the locator values for
the elements of interest.
I then perform actions against them e.g. part in data uses sing keys or perform a click using dot click.
So let's try this out.
So in Eclipse I had the Maven project open and the first thing I need to do is create a new package
to store our test classes.
So I'm going to create this under source test Java.
So if I expand that, you'll see that we have a default package here.
But I'm going to create a new package by right click in source, set Java, select in New and then select
in package.
And this package is going to be called test cases and then click Finish.
And now I'm going to right click that package, select new and then select class.
So the class name that I'm going to use is store log in test and then click finish.
That class would then open.
So the first thing I'm going to do in this class is create a new method, and it's going to be called
public void.
Log in and then open and close embraces.
So the next thing I need to do is set up the driver instance, and we've done this many times before.
So instead of writing it manually, I'm just going to go to my intro package and under the source folder,
under the default package folder, I have a class called Chrome Demo.
So I'm going to double click it, open it, and I'm just going to copy these lines of code.
I'm then going to go back to my new class and I'm going to paste it here.
So this is as we've seen in the past, we're pointing to the Chrome driver system property.
We created a new chrome driver object called driver.
It's expanding the window and it's going to go to a Web page.
So the next thing I need to do is update this address to point to the log in page of the test or website.
So I am going to go to the test store by clicking on the test store link here.
And I'm going to click on the sign in page and I'm going to simply copy this address.
And replace the existing one.
So that is our core setup code.
Now, the next thing I need to do is I'm going to create an object of the test store, log in, page
class.
To do this, all I need to do is write the name of the class, which is test.
Store.
Log in page.
I need to give an object name, so I'm going to call this log page.
Equals new test.
Store.
Log in page with brackets at the end and a semicolon.
So you can see that there is an error on the test or log in page.
If I hover over it, you'll see that I've got the option to import it.
And if I do that, that ever goes away.
But there's an error on this second part.
And if I hover over it, it says the constructor is undefined.
So the reason for that is I need to provide a value here and I'm going to write Driver.
So this driver instance inside this inside these parameters is the driver is defined here.
So it's a new chrome driver.
So what's happening here is that when I'm creating a new object of a test or log in page, if I open
up that class, you remember that in the constructor here.
I'm expecting a Webb driver object to be passed.
So when I'm creating this object, I'm providing a driver instance and that driver instance has been
set up.
It needs three lines of code.
So the next thing that I need to do is use those methods from the object's class and we have gets email,
get password and get log in button.
So the first thing I'm going to do is send an email value to the email text filled on the website.
To do this, I'm simply going to use the log page object that I've just created in the line above.
Dot.
Get email.
And that email is very simply using this method.
And its returning driver find element email.
And the email consists of this here.
So it's pointing to the locator for their email textbox.
So I've used the object to call that method.
And by calling that method and getting that locator, I can then perform an action.
So if I write dots here, send keys, I can now send the value and I'm going to send test at test dot
com.
So I am now going to use the object again, but this time I'm going to get password.
And again I'm getting the same keys and the password that I'm going to send is test.
One, two, three.
Finally, I'm going to use that object one more time and it's going to get the log in button locator.
And instead of sending keys and as this is a button, I'm going to use dot click.
So let's try running this test to see what happens.
So I'm going to save this.
And I am going to right click the store, log in, test class, select a run, and you can see that
I don't have an option to run the test.
Have a think why that is.
The reason for that is I haven't declared the test annotation.
And I need to import that.
From Test and J.
And by doing so, testing knows that this is a test.
So if I say this class again and now try running it one more time.
You see, I have the option of test.
N g test.
So if I run it, let's see what happens.
So I opened up the browser.
It's gone to log in page and it's logged me in.
So I managed to do that by reference in an object of the object's class and that object's class stores
methods which retrieves the locator values.
So imagine I had a number, a test class here.
And it used the same locators.
If a developer changed the layouts of this log in page.
And for example, change the locator values as part of the redesign.
Then all it requires me to do is update the locators in the test store, log in page which saw the locator
values.
So all I'd have to do, for example, is update this locator.
Or these ones.
But because we're using the locators in a centralized location, that means all other classes that uses
that page objects class will also be updated with the new locator values.
Because we creating a object of that object's class.
And we get in the locators by calling methods from within that class.
So that's why we construct our tests in this way.
It's for improved maintainability, and it's so that we don't have to update each individual test class.
I hope this concept has been useful to you.
And when we do the live project from the next section, we'll start making use of this concept.
Thank you for watching.